# Experience

## What is it?

Imagine the rocky landscapes of Earth. The high mountains are what you're good 
at and the deep valleys are what you're bad at. Experience is the union of all
those land forms whether it's a mountain, valley, hill, plain, etc. This is 
currently my best metaphor for experience, and from this, I'll build a model for
experience.

## Model

Before I define *experience*, I need to first define an *action*. An *action* is
a (continuous) series of steps performed in a finite time range. Waving your arm
is an *action set*. Running a business is also an *action set*. I describe these
two activities, one simple and one complex, as *action sets*, because there are 
numerous ways to do each activity. *Action sets*, unfortunately, aren't well 
defined so they'll undoubtedly vary from person to person.

Experience is a function that takes an *action* and returns a probability.
Imagining all possible actions is rather difficult, so I tend to simply the
model to a function that takes a point in 3d space and returns a boolean.
Similar actions will tend to have similar probabilities, so they'll also tend to
clump in our visualization. The clumps will form the mountains, hills, and
valleys in our metaphor.

## Building and losing experience

As the metaphor goes, building experience often means building a mountain with
just a shovel. Of course, it doesn't have to be mountain; you can build
virtually anything given enough time and dirt. The main point is building
experience will take time, repetition, and packing dirt in the right places.

Losing experience is erosion. Erosion is often caused by memory loss, a natural
effect of having imperfect memory.

## Strategies

1. Big mountains: great at a small action set.
2. Many small mountains: good at a medium action set.
3. Many, many hills: okay at a large action set.

Big mountains is the go to strategy for success. It attempts to minimize the
erosion effect by continuously building on top of itself. 

The other strategies trade increased losses from erosion for increased variety
and flexibility.

## Where to put the dirt

If anything you try marginally interests you, don't leave it at a single bucket
of dirt. Build a small hill. Still interested? Build a bigger hill. *Still*
interested. Build an even bigger hill. And so on.

Too often, we say that some small thing we do is sort of cool, but since it's
not amazing, we end up ignoring it. When we go back searching for that small 
thing, we can't find it because we only gave it one bucket. Next time, make a
landmark.